# cart263-2019

"Sysiphus's Work Life" is a commentary on the desperate, endless character of minimum wage jobs. It is meant to incarnate the deperation felt when, at the end of an especially painful hour of your shift, you realise you haven't even made enough money for an appealing meal, or the kind of grateful despair felt that one time a generous client tipped you 2$ and that was worth more pay that the time you'd spent with her. “Sysiphus’s Work Life” uses minimalist means to express the eternal punishment of a worker who is trying to gather enough money to leave, but whose need for sustenance inevitably crushes their hopes. In this scenario, Sysiphus is trapped in an endless workshift at the repetitive, meaningless task. While putting apples in a box, Sysiphus reflects upon the cruelty of their premise: the cruel irony of working with the very food that they empty their wallet for has had centuries to sink in. 

This game has been inspired by my own struggles toiling in jobs I hate for a meager salary just to stay barely afloat and by the struggles of everyone less well off than me who have no support system to rely on. The idea of an eternal, repetitive punishment reminded me of the sense of hopelessness that comes from working a job you know is unlikely to ever give you the means to move on to something better. 

The aesthetics of the game have been driven by both a constrain and a concept. The use of ugly cliparts was, at first, born of a time constraint. While this constraint influenced my decision to keep them, I decided to make no efforts to embellish the game. On the contrary, I actively strived to make it uglier in the ways I managed to access (to this moment, I remain unable to make the progress bars lime green). The jarring red background and unsophisticated noises have been picked with the express purpose of making the game an unaesthetic experience. I felt  this choice allowed me to express a greater degree of despair and discomfort in this eternal punishment. A pleasing aesthetic would have diminished the distress of Sysiphus, whereas a perpetually atrocious environment was more fitting. Living in a world without anything else than the apple machine, the apple, the box, their meager funds and their hunger, Sysiphus cannot even afford any distractions in their work except for the torture of their bored mind. Around them, there is nothing but drowing white or red light and the cyclical buzzing of the threadmill. Even sleep provides no real rest from, for the light only dims to a bloody shade when their hunger is unbearable. Pleasure eludes them and yet they keep hoping that if they manage to keep from eating for long enough, they may finally be able to leave – but their hope only slips further as their hunger settles deeper and deeper inside, entrenched by years of starvation. 

I imagine, if Sysiphys were to walk away, they would find nothing but other apples and other machines, with no rest in sight. Each of them would be slightly different on the surface, but fundamentally the same underneath, in a feeling similar to what the job market sometimes evokes.

And yet they keep hoping.

There’s nothing else for them to do.
