The initial idea for this project was a breeding game, the likes of which you can find a couple of examples out there, in mobile games or browser games like Flight Rising. I have long loved these games but resented their lack of anything resembling actual genetics; I saw in this project an occasion to make a game like I’d want to play. 
This assignment was also for me an occasion to showcase a bit of a personal project. For the last six years, I have been working on a fictional universe in which I have included more and more speculative biology as time went by. In the last year, my attention has been fixed on the fauna of this universe, particularly domestic species. I have long held a deep fascination for pigmentation. How are the colors we see produced? How do they interact? How are there animals so colorful out there, and how did we introduce so many variations in our domestic species? Driven by these combined interests, I have spent a great many hours over the years researching, thinking, and trying to apply this knowledge. This project is the child of these fascinations.
In this project, I am showcasing [a good portion of] the color morphs of oujabe, a fictional dog-like specie. Oujabes were also featured in Herder Pong, which I submitted last semester. Over the last few months, I spent a lot of time working on this specie specifically, which is probably the most genetically ambitious one to receive my time so far. The idea of a breeding game was a sort of epiphany – a realisation that programming could help me showcase my painstaking work in a much more engaging and compelling way than a big folder of infographics. Due to time constraints, I have had to scale down the project from the initial idea of a full breeding game to the mechanically simpler genetics lab I have produced. In a way, this scaling down is a bit sad – a full game, with game mechanics, would have been fun. In truth, however, I find this fortunate. At some point in my work, I remembered the long hours I have spent fooling around in various character creators and realised that they did provide a more-than-entertaining-enough experience. This unburdened format is also truer to the work I want to produce in the future, not only allowing me to display simply a number of combinations I would have never had the courage to draw by hand, but also leaving the door wide open to adding a slew of other species. This project has allowed me to discover the perfect way to showcase all this finicky speculative biology worldbuilding I’ve been doing.

Now to a more technical part, I wish to provide you with some more explanations of what’s going on with all these little genes you can click on. 
The main inspirations for the oujabe palette are lovebirds (for the red head variants) and green jays (for the unmodified blue head variant). A lot of the morphs I created are based on lovebird morphs – of course, the actual loci of these genes are not really known for lovebirds, so that part at least is built on how I felt it (and some things about it are actually not quite right). At the most basic level, oujabe, like birds, have two broad types of pigments: melanins and carotenoids. We mammals only have melanins. Carotenoids are obtained in the diet and produce red, orange and yellow colors. Melanins are produced by the animal itself and are best known for producing brown, black and rusty colors, but they can also be arranged in structures that reflect certain wavelengths to produce iridescence and specific colors, most commonly blue. Animals that are green do not have a dedicated green pigments: they have a layer of yellow carotenoids under a layer of structural blue, producing green. Because these two types of pigments are obtained and distributed differently, they are not affected by the same genes. In the case of the oujabe, locus F affects the density of carotenoids, resulting in muted head colors and bluer bodies because of the diluted yellow under the structural blue. The Y, C, D and S locus all affect melanin. The S locus causes spots that do not have melanin. Because it does not affect carotenoids, these spots are not white like they would have been on a mammal – instead, they are the color of the carotenoids underneath.  
