Make A Friend! (Purposeful Gracelessness) was, it goes without saying, inspired by the assigned article Something is Wrong on the Internet by James Briddle. Two parts in particular were most inspiring to me : the video with Alladin characters with the wrong head in which the child from Despicable Me would cry until there was a match, and the T-shirt store who inadvertently put up for sale shirts with quotes such as “Keep Calm and Rape a Lot”. 

In the Wrong Heads video, I was drawn to the decidedly automated, cold feeling of the video. As stated by Briddle, there is nothing exactly wrong with this video, which is still, strictly speaking, kids friendly. However, it is undeniable there is something off about it: it is thematically inconsistent, aesthetically cheap, and, most importantly, it is uncanny. This is reinforced by the childish aesthetic which, in its cheapness, is somewhat offputting. This inspired me to create the creatures seen in Make A Friend!, which I designed specifically so that I could mix and match parts in a not quite right way.

The “Rape a Lot” shirts, which I went on to read a bit more about, also inspired me a lot. The story behind them is that these offensive shirts posting were computer generated from a list of words that nobody really checked, and nobody checked the resulting postings either. Consequently, things such as “Keep Calm and Rape a Lot” slipped through. I loved the idea of generated, accidentally wrong or offensive sentences. I took a slightly different approach to it, building a framework of a story and filling it in a Mad Libs type of way. I did check the words I put in: I built the list so it would have some hint of sense for the story, but I did include some words that did not fit quite as well. Most importantly, I never checked the potential combinations and resulting stories until the project was built.

My goal in building this project was to reach a similar uncanny child-friendliness as the Wrong Heads video. With this in mind, I illustrated the creature parts so that their design would be child friendly, but rigid and unnatural. Their parts fit together; there’s not wide gaps, detached arms, or other such issues, but they do not match together. The colors are wrong, the creatures inconsistent: insect bodies have bear heads, goats have wings, cows have mantis arms, and so on. There is some hint of creepiness in this, but in a way that would most likely be unnoticed by a young child, leaving them enthusiastic about these randomly generated friends while their parents watch, uneasy. The background is overly simple, and its colors are slightly mismatched at times. Together with the low effort, somewhat ugly UI, they do not quite match the stylised creatures: it is aesthetically inconsistent. 

With this, I aimed to evoke one of two feelings. Optimistically, one can feel like someone tried to generate something child friendly and did not quite succeed. There remains, however, an impression there is something more: something deeper and less benevolent lurking behind a kid friendly surface. This is where the sound is most important. The generic, calming music has nothing wrong to it. However, it contrasts with the off-putting robotic voice. This voice does not know that the words its reading do not make sense. It does not know that these stories are slightly off, that some of them may even sound somewhat suggestive. It does not know, and neither does the child.
